[MUSIC]
>> Jafar: I want to talk to you
a little bit about exercise 12.
Because exercise 12 you're gonna make the
first mental leap, first really important
mental leap, in order to get really,
really good at asynchronous programming.
So, first thing I want you to call your
attention to is that this is not allowed.
When you fill out exercise 12,
you're not allowed to pull a value out
of an array synchronously like this.
Why would I put that kind
of restriction on you?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jafar: Sorry?
>> Speaker 2: Cuz we're learning
asynchronous.
>> Jafar: Cuz we're learning asynchronous
programming we're gonna limit
ourselves to only those operations,
which will work not just on an array but
also on an observable as well.
So go ahead, read that catch question
very carefully and give it a shot.
And let me know once you pass exercise 12.
Yes, question?
>> Speaker 3: There was a quick question
on, just the order in doing things.
Needed a map then a concat and
then a map again?
>> Jafar: Which would totally because
first he's using map to turn it into
an array of arrays cuz all he's
returning is the, is the video.
So the first time what he's,
what he's saying is that he did this.
Which, which I wanna point out will work,
right?
At the same time as you're
returning the videos,
which turns into an array of arrays.
You can also map that and
just return the IDs,
right?
>> Speaker 3: I'm just wondering if it's
less effective though
>> Jafar: But
it is less efficient probably, I'm not
100% sure but less efficient enough and
the idea it,
was actually in this particular case.
Yes, it's almost certainly less efficient
with the rays because every single map
operation start the beginning and
then traverses all the way down and so,
if you're you're already going over the
array, be good to sort of do the transfer.
I'm not a 100% sure in this case.
If you're doing any filtering, certainly,
you wanna move filter operations up as
early as possible because then all
subsequent operations don't need to
process those items that you were
eventually going to filter out anyways.
So in this particular case, yes, it is
probably less efficient because each time
you call map,
you're also allocating a whole new array.
[SOUND] How many people got done?
It's not surprising.
It's hard.
I didn't expect any to get that but
I do wanna talk you through this process
because this is actually gonna be a big
mental leap.
One of the things that developers
are typically not comfortable with,
is dealing with nested collections.
Like our friend over there, the first
thing you tried to do was concatAll, so
that you could get that two dimensional
down to one dimensional collection.
Because it is just so
much easier to kind of deal with, right?
We're not comfortable with
multidimensional collections for
the most part.
And that's what we have to become
comfortable with in order to do
asynchronous programming.
That's actually key to really
effective asynchronous programming.
Being comfortable, basically having nested
map statements and effectively building
trees all secure in the knowledge that you
can use concatAll to flatten it out again.
You have to be comfortable doing that.
So here's what most people do, so
let's go over the problem here that
we wanna achieve the ID title, and
the particular boxer,
that's 150 by 200 for every the array for
the box at the 250 by 200 for every single
video in this array of movie lists.
Right, so once again, we have an array
of movie less each of which contains.
So here's our movie list, right?
So we have instant queue,
and then your new releases.
So, that's the outer array of movie list.
Each one of which contains
an inner array of videos, right?
So what we need to get is the ID title and
box art that's only 150x200 for
each one of the videos in there.
So, a nice flat array of ID title and
150x200 box art.
So, let's try and solve it.
>> Jafar: Well,
I'm gonna take the movie list and just
like last time, I'm gonna map over them.
And that's gonna give me
an individual movie list,
and then I am going to go ahead and
return the movie
lists titles this time
I'm going to map it.
Now I've got videos,
is it video or titles?
Videos
>> Jafar: And
I'm gonna return the ID
>> Jafar: Of the video,
and return the title of the video.
And now I need the box art, right?
Now, I just need to grab
that smallest box art.
So, let's just go through
the videos box art collections,
let's spell box art we want the Earl
actually the 150 by 200 box art.
So I'm gonna go video., if you look
at an actual video object notice that
every video object has an array inside
of it of potential box arts, okay?
So what I have to do,
is I have to find the box art,
that's 150 by 200, right here and
I have to pull out its url.
So, that shouldn't be too hard.
It seems sorta like the map and filter
chain example that we did before, right?
We're first filtering for
a box art that meets this conditions and
then we're mapping and
pulling out only the url.
So, let's write that right in line here.
>> Jafar: I'm
gonna format this a little bit better,
so it's clearer what I'm doing.
So first off,
filter
>> Jafar: So,
I'm looking for
the box art with the width of 150, was it?
Yeah, and a height of 200.
>> Jafar: And once again,
I'm gonna be careful about my formatting
because I want to keep things readable.
Even though we're building
one long expression here,
it doesn't mean that it can't be readable.
And so as soon as I have
two verbs on a single noun,
I put each on its own line,
>> Jafar: And
I'm gonna return just the url.
So now that I've narrowed the list
of box arts to only the one
that has 150 by 200, all I wanna
do is pull out this url, right?
So, think we're pretty much there.
>> Jafar: Show
you the right number of parenthesis.
Okay.
>> Speaker 3: Others saying, the id.video,
id.video.id.title.video.title
>> Jafar: Thank you.
Perfect, and
now I think if it's anything like the last
example all I really have
to do is use concatAll,
to take this two dimensional
collection and flatten it out.
[SOUND] Whoa [SOUND] Right,
so I have movie list
which is a noun and
I'm applying multiple verbs,
multiple functions to it.
So as soon as I have multiple,
I put them each of them on their own line.
And then within each video in the movie
list, I'm mapping that into JSON object,
little JavaScript object here and
I'm pulling out the id, the title and
the box art.
In order to get the box art, I'm filtering
all the box arts in the video and
I'm grabbing only the one with
the width of a 150 by 200.
And then,
I'm using map to just pull out its url.
So, it feels like we're
pretty much done here.
All I need to do is run it.
Well that's a problem, property list.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jafar: What's that sir?
>> Speaker 2: You have to concat
one more time.
>> Jafar: What, do I?
Yeah, I think you're right, I do.
But I'll get into that in just a moment,
and that's actually kind of
what I want to highlight, but I think
there's also a syntax error here and
specifically here believes is that.
>> Speaker 4: I think you don't need
that semicolon after map.
>> Jafar: Do I have, thank you.
That was the source of the problem.
Now, I've got a missing argument list.
>> Jafar: Bear with me.
Into the map function,
into the other map function,
>> Jafar: Anybody spot my error here?
>> Jafar: Try and make this
a little bit more.
>> Speaker 5: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jafar: That's correct.
>> Speaker 5: And now that you've still
have an array.
>> Jafar: Yep, so
what you have hit on what I
actually wanted to hit on here,
I'm not sure what the syntax errors,
won't spend too much time on it.
but now that we're sure that isn't
the right answer and it's not the right
answer my syntax error side because
box are disposed to be just a url.
Notice here, box are supposed to
be just the URL these results but
it's not how do I know it's not?
Well, it's the result of
the filter that function,
what is a filter return?
>> Jafar: An array.
What is map return?
>> Speaker 5: An array.
>> Jafar: Right, so box art is actually
going to be an array.
If this program runs correctly,
if I can get it to run correctly,
it's actually gonna to be
an array of the box art.
Does that makes sense?
So what we need to do is somehow get
the array-ness off of that box art,
and the logical thing to do and
I think a lot of us would love to just do-
>> Speaker 5: Bracket zero.
>> Jafar: Bracket zero.
That very thing that I stubbornly
told you you could not do, right?
So, what's the answer?
What are we really doing when we do
this?
>> Jafar: We're
binding a variable to an item
inside of a collection.
What I mean when I say bind,
is now whatever's in the first
item position in that array, we can now
refer to using that variable name, right?
Well, there's another way
that you can do that.
If I want to bind a variable to every
item in a collection, I can use,
[SOUND] I just type it right here
even though it's crazy, [SOUND].
What have I done when I do this?
I've bound x to every item
in a collection, right?
This is the asynchronous equivalent of
this,
>> Jafar: If there are just two ways of
doing the same thing.
Right now,
I can refer inside that function any way,
x is every item in that collection and
I can do something with it.
So what I'm missing,
what I'm actually missing,
the problem is I'm trying to
create this object too soon.
What you've gotta do, is you've
gotta keep using map until you've
introduced all, so
notice here, I've used map and
I've brought these identifier,
this variable into scope.
Because I've bound video to each of
the videos in the movie list collection,
but I'm not done yet
because I actually need one more binding,
I need to bind box art to the one box
art inside of that video that has
the width the 150 by 200 and the url.
So what I am gonna do is instead
of creating the object so early,
which is a rookie move,
I'm gonna go video.boxarts.
I'm gonna move all of this stuff up here.
>> Jafar: Now I want you to notice,
right here inside of this function,
that now,
I have everything I need
to create my result.
Because I've brought in the box art,
which is now bound to this box art
object right here, in the scope so
that I can refer to it.
I'm gonna write out the answer and
hopefully will become clear what I did
here.
>> Jafar: So,
now I'm ready cuz I've
got everything I need.
I've got video up here in the closure.
I've got box art up here in the closure.
>> Jafar: The title.
>> Jafar: So through the magic of closure
scope, I brought in all
the data that I need.
Now, that can kind of get
a little complicated.
I mean, how many levels deep am I now?
How many levels deep is this collection?
>> Jafar: For every
movieList we're returning a collection-
>> Speaker 5: Four levels.
>> Jafar: Four levels?
I hear four, anybody got anything else?
I feel like an auctioneer up here.
Anybody got two?
>> Speaker 5: [LAUGH]
>> Jafar: Three?
>> Speaker 5: Three, I guess.
>> Jafar: It's three.
It's three, because for every movieList,
I'm returning a collection.
But for each one of those videos,
I'm returning another collection.
So, I have three levels
deep of collection here.
Which isn't crazy because I started with
a three dimensional collection, right?
We nested our maps until we got
another three dimensional collection.
So now all I need to do is,
I need to go from this three dimensional
collection down to a one
dimensional collection.
So the point is,
we shouldn't be afraid of getting
ourselves into a deeply nested collection.
It's oka, because we can always fall back
on our flattening operators to flatten it
back out no one dimensional collection.
So if I, see me a get my brackets right.
If I do this, I've now taken the two
dimensional collection and I flatten it
into a one dimensional question.
>> Jafar: I'm
actually gonna change
my formatting as I go.
Because as soon as I add two
operators to a single object,
I each put them on their own line.
And the same thing applies,
now I flatten it to a two dimensional
collection.
>> Jafar: And
we're down to a one dimensional
collection, some have run this,
hopefully it works.
Still missing that are for the argument
that some of the mistype something some or
some of the cheat and show answer but
I sure to look very much like this.
Except with long functions unfortunately.
>> Jafar: So I mapped over all
the movieLists that I'm up,
over all the videos within that movieList.
For each one of those videos,
I map over the box arts.
Well, first I filter them for
only the ones with with the 150.
It should have a 200 check there also and
then I map it.
Now, that I've got all the information
I need introduced by the closure scope,
I'm ready to create my result.
And that's what you have to do.
You have to keep mapping until you have
a variable bound to every value you need
to create your result.
And once you got to that point,
amounts easy.
You just have to figure out how deep you
are and apply n minus one concatAll.
So, I've created a three
dimension deep collection.
So, I just need two concatAll's
to flatten it out again.
So keep mapping until everything
you need is introduced,
is down to a variable by a closure.
Create your result and figure out how deep
you are and then flatten by n minus one.
So, you're gonna be doing
this all over the place.
Yep.
>> Speaker 6: So,
could you create out of the pyramid
structure with this if you kept going?
>> Jafar: Definitely.
You will create a pyramid structure.
Does anybody think that's a bad thing?
>> Speaker 7: What's a pyramid structure?
>> Jafar: A pyramid structure is what
he's pointing out here which is that you
see that the code kind of goes like this.
Right, it goes like that.
Anybody ever heard
the expression pyramid of doom?
We have one person there.
If you've done any node programming,
you very often end up with this type of
nested callback, is a node in order to
do one thing after another thing, you
have to nested inside of call backs and
you end up with what some node
programmers call the pyramid of doom.
This nesting is not a problem but
it's really actually nothing wrong or
bad about this nesting.
One of the problems with Node JS when you
do this nesting, is that because they
don't have observable and they don't use
promises and they just use callbacks.
One of the real problems
with the pyramid of doom,
is that you have to
manually handle errors.
You have to manually
forward errors up yourself.
And so that's why pyramid of doom
is very damaging in Node JS.
Because if you can be like seven levels of
callback deep and something goes wrong and
you can actually correctly
clean about yourself,
you are a much smarter
developer than I am.
Observable will automatically forward
errors for you, if an error occurs
anywhere in here arrays, we can count
on throw automatically doing it for us.
But in the world of observed
with asynchronous programming,
observable will forward on any errors in
any of these observable inner observables
up to the top so that you can catch
them in one place just like try catch.
And so you shouldn't be afraid of nesting,
the key is not to avoid nesting.
The key is to get really good with your
code formatting, so that you can make sure
that your code stays readable even
at multiple levels of nesting.
I mean you've probably nested three for
loops, right?
That's not a terribly crazy idea.
Very often you don't see yourself more
than three or four levels nested.
So if you can nest three for loops, you've
got exactly the same number of scopes here
as if we nested three MFs.
>> Jafar: So,
that's the key to solving
the next x number of exercises.
It's always the same thing.
Keep nesting map expressions until you
have a variable bound to everything you
need to create your result.
When you've got a variable bound to
everything you need to create your result,
you know you can stop, return that result.
And then figure out how deep you are apply
n minus one concatAlls and you're good.